# lmad1: "Let's Make a Demo 1.1" workshop base code

This is a rather twisted and obscure piece of code, yes. Here is my
first attempt at creating a JavaScript library (of any kind...) with
the intention of it being used in the production of very small
browser-executable files called "intros" in the demoscene parlance.

This is a work-in-progress that surfaces now, in March 2019, for the
second time in the beginner-friendly demoparty called Instanssi held
in Jyv채skyl채, Finland.

Instanssi 2018 and 2019 party programs contain this workshop called
"Let's Make a Demo". This is the current instantiation of the "Version
1 series" customized for Instanssi. Version 2.0 took place in Assembly
2018 Scene Lounge, together with Graffathon crew, with a totally
different approach. While looking forward to possibly doing Version
2.1 in Assembly 2019 again with Graffathon and using Processing, if
they happen to want such of me, this Version 1.1 continues strictly on
the track of 4k intros with my own base code.

Documentation is generated with the default settings of JSDoc, and not
much is written as of yet. My bad. Might improve over time, or might
not.

WARNING: The interface may change any time, so for productions you
will want to stick with one snapshot version of the library until
you've made it to the compo in question!

Author: Paavo Nieminen - known as "The Old Dude" for Instanssi people
and "qma" for the greater demoscene community. (My identity crisis
with nicknames still persists after 1990's and "Flex" of The Blues
Boys group).

Let's Make a Demo 1.1 party coding workshop is sponsored by the
Faculty of Information Technology, University of Jyv채skyl채, employer
of The Old Dude.

## Goal? Purpose of existence?

In Instanssi "Let's make a demo 1.1", the goal is to enable each
participant to create their own entry in one of two possible
competition categories: 4k intro ("pikkiriikkinen" in Finnish) or
demo.

The entries will be made from scratch, at the party place, with
guidance. The target audience is first-time demo
programmers. "Seasoned veterans" are most welcome, but I hope they'll
mostly help in guiding the newcomers, having doing their homework (own
compo entries) mostly before the party starts.

Previous experience in computer graphics is not required of the
participants. Programming experience would help, but is not strictly
required. Interest and a curious attitude towards demo programming is
most necessary.

## Current status as of 1.1

"Version 1.0" of this library was successfully used to produce some 4
productions in Instanssi 2018 compos, most of them 4k intros. After
some hours of free time during the past year, I have tried to make
this much more beginner-friendly, in the spirit of the
beginner-friendly event that Instanssi is.

Still, there are quite a few undocumented nuts and bolts around, and
it is probably very difficult to go about using this without
face-to-face guidance. You have been warned...

In the Instanssi 2019 workshop, we'll have 40+ hours before the
deadline of the compos targeted by workshop participants. That means
we'll have enough time to go through and solve all sorts of problems
that may arise, together with the participants.
